Chapter04/README.md, before:

# Chapter 04: Working with Files

**English** | [한국어](./README.ko.md)

## What You'll Learn

- Referencing files with Claude (@-mention)
- File creation and modification
- Processing multiple files simultaneously

---

## Referencing Files with @

In Claude Code, `@` references files.

### Basic Usage

```
> @index.html Explain this file
```

```
> @src/app.js Find bugs in this code
```

```
> @package.json List the libraries used here
```

### Auto-complete

Typing `@` followed by a filename displays a list automatically. Use arrows to select and press Enter.

### Folder References

```
> @src/ Explain this folder structure
```

```
> @components/ What do these files do?
```

---

## File Creation

Request file creation from Claude.

### Examples

```
> Create a file called hello.txt. Write "Hello World" inside.
```

```
> Create an index.html file. Make it a simple web page.
```

### Approval Process

In Normal mode, Claude requests confirmation before creating files:

```
Claude wants to create hello.txt
---
Hello World
---
[Allow] [Deny]
```

Selecting `Allow` creates the file.

### Creating with Folders

```
> Create src/components/Button.js file. Make it a React button component.
```

If the folder does not exist, Claude creates it as well.

---

## File Modification

Existing files can be modified.

### Examples

```
> In @index.html, change the title to "My Website"
```

```
> Add a console.log to @app.js
```

### Reviewing Changes

Claude displays changes before editing:

```diff
- <h1>Hello World</h1>
+ <h1>My Website</h1>
```

Red (-) indicates removal, green (+) indicates addition.

---

## Viewing File Contents

```
> @config.json Show me the contents
```

```
> Read @README.md
```

Claude reads and displays file contents. For long files, important sections may be summarized.

---

## Processing Multiple Files

### Referencing Multiple Files

```
> Look at @index.html and @style.css and check if styles are applied correctly
```

```
> Compare @src/api.js and @src/utils.js and find duplicate code
```

### Finding Files by Pattern

```
> Find all .js files in the src folder
```

```
> Show me all test files
```

---

## Special Prefixes

Beyond `@`, other useful prefixes exist.

| Prefix | Function | Example |
|--------|----------|---------|
| `@` | Reference file/folder | `@src/app.js` |
| `!` | Run command and show result | `!ls` |
| `#` | Save to Claude's memory | `# Always respond in English` |

### ! Examples

```
> !ls
```
Displays the current folder's file list; Claude recognizes the content.

```
> !cat package.json
```
Outputs file contents to terminal; Claude recognizes the content.

### # Examples

```
> # This project uses TypeScript
```
Claude remembers this rule and asks where to save it.

---

## Practice

### 1. File Creation

```
> Create my-first-page.html.
> Title should be "My First Web Page", put a self-introduction in the body.
```

### 2. File Modification

```
> @my-first-page.html Change the background color to sky blue
```

### 3. Multiple File Creation

```
> Create a my-project folder and make index.html, style.css, script.js inside.
> Make it a simple "Hello World" web page.
```

### 4. File Comparison

```
> Compare the structure of @index.html and @about.html
```

---

## Common Mistakes

### File Not Found

```
> @nonexistent.txt Show me
```
Verify the filename is correct. Using auto-complete reduces errors.

### Incorrect Path

```
> @app.js Show me
```
The file may be in another folder. Try including the path: `@src/app.js`.

### Approval Not Given

If a file was not created, verify `Allow` was selected on the approval request.

---

## Mini Project: Personal Introduction Page

Create a personal introduction page using concepts from this chapter.

### Goals

- Learn HTML/CSS basics
- Practice file creation and modification

### Creation

```
> Create a personal introduction page.
> - Name and profile picture placeholder
> - Short introduction paragraph
> - List of favorite things
> - Applied styling
```

### Improvement

```
> Change the background to pastel colors
```
Practice CSS color systems (`hex`, `rgb`, `hsl`)

```
> Make the fonts more elegant
```
Understand web fonts and `font-family` stacks

```
> Add hover effects that change colors
```
CSS pseudo-classes for interaction

### Challenge

```
> Make a dark mode version too
```
CSS variable-based theming - essential for modern web

```
> Split into multiple pages (index.html, about.html, contact.html)
```
Multi-page architecture and navigation design

---

## Summary

Covered in this chapter:
- [x] Referencing files with `@`
- [x] File creation
- [x] File modification
- [x] Processing multiple files
- [x] Special prefixes (`@`, `!`, `#`)

The next chapter covers terminal commands.

Proceed to [Chapter 05: Terminal Commands](../Chapter05/README.md).

Commit message:

Enhance curriculum with improved explanations and restructured Part 4
- Update all chapters to use 'effective request tips' instead of 'why LLM does this well'
- Restructure Part 4 (Practical II) with new topics:
  - Chapter 15: CLI Tools (file organizer, project generator, npm publishing)
  - Chapter 16: Chatbots (Discord bot + Slack bot extension)
  - Chapter 17: Full-Stack Apps (React + Express + SQLite)
- Chapter 13: Changed from Supabase to localStorage for simpler data persistence
- Chapter 17: Removed signup-required APIs, kept only free APIs
- Updated Chapter 20 to reflect Chapter 13 changes
- All changes applied to both Korean and English versions

Chapter04/README.md, after:

# Chapter 04: Working with Files

**English** | [한국어](./README.ko.md)

## What You'll Learn

- Referencing files with Claude (@-mention)
- File creation and modification
- Processing multiple files simultaneously

---

## Referencing Files with @

In Claude Code, `@` references files.

### Basic Usage

```
> @index.html Explain this file
```

```
> @src/app.js Find bugs in this code
```

```
> @package.json List the libraries used here
```

### Auto-complete

Typing `@` followed by a filename displays a list automatically. Use arrows to select and press Enter.

### Folder References

```
> @src/ Explain this folder structure
```

```
> @components/ What do these files do?
```

---

## File Creation

Request file creation from Claude.

### Examples

```
> Create a file called hello.txt. Write "Hello World" inside.
```

```
> Create an index.html file. Make it a simple web page.
```

### Approval Process

In Normal mode, Claude requests confirmation before creating files:

```
Claude wants to create hello.txt
---
Hello World
---
[Allow] [Deny]
```

Selecting `Allow` creates the file.

### Creating with Folders

```
> Create src/components/Button.js file. Make it a React button component.
```

If the folder does not exist, Claude creates it as well.

---

## File Modification

Existing files can be modified.

### Examples

```
> In @index.html, change the title to "My Website"
```

```
> Add a console.log to @app.js
```

### Reviewing Changes

Claude displays changes before editing:

```diff
- <h1>Hello World</h1>
+ <h1>My Website</h1>
```

Red (-) indicates removal, green (+) indicates addition.

---

## Viewing File Contents

```
> @config.json Show me the contents
```

```
> Read @README.md
```

Claude reads and displays file contents.

**For long files:**

```
> @README.md Summarize the key points
> @config.json Find only the port setting
```

Be specific about what you need to find it faster.

---

## Processing Multiple Files

### Referencing Multiple Files

```
> Look at @index.html and @style.css and check if styles are applied correctly
```

```
> Compare @src/api.js and @src/utils.js and find duplicate code
```

### Finding Files by Pattern

```
> Find all .js files in the src folder
```

```
> Show me all test files
```

---

## Special Prefixes

Beyond `@`, other useful prefixes exist.

| Prefix | Function | Example |
|--------|----------|---------|
| `@` | Reference file/folder | `@src/app.js` |
| `!` | Run command and show result | `!ls` |
| `#` | Save to Claude's memory | `# Always respond in English` |

### ! Examples

```
> !ls
```
Displays the current folder's file list; Claude recognizes the content.

```
> !cat package.json
```
Outputs file contents to terminal; Claude recognizes the content.

### # Examples

```
> # This project uses TypeScript
```
Claude remembers this rule and asks where to save it.

---

## Practice

### 1. File Creation

```
> Create my-first-page.html.
> Title should be "My First Web Page", put a self-introduction in the body.
```

### 2. File Modification

```
> @my-first-page.html Change the background color to sky blue
```

### 3. Multiple File Creation

```
> Create a my-project folder and make index.html, style.css, script.js inside.
> Make it a simple "Hello World" web page.
```

### 4. File Comparison

```
> Compare the structure of @index.html and @about.html
```

---

## Common Mistakes

### File Not Found

```
> @nonexistent.txt Show me
```
Verify the filename is correct. Using auto-complete reduces errors.

### Incorrect Path

```
> @app.js Show me
```
The file may be in another folder. Try including the path: `@src/app.js`.

### Approval Not Given

If a file was not created, verify `Allow` was selected on the approval request.

---

## Mini Project: Personal Introduction Page

Create a personal introduction page using concepts from this chapter.

### Goals

- Learn HTML/CSS basics
- Practice file creation and modification

### Creation

```
> Create a personal introduction page.
> - Name and profile picture placeholder
> - Short introduction paragraph
> - List of favorite things
> - Applied styling
```

### Improvement

```
> Change the background to pastel colors
```
Practice CSS color systems (`hex`, `rgb`, `hsl`)

```
> Make the fonts more elegant
```
Understand web fonts and `font-family` stacks

```
> Add hover effects that change colors
```
CSS pseudo-classes for interaction

### Challenge

```
> Make a dark mode version too
```
CSS variable-based theming - essential for modern web

```
> Split into multiple pages (index.html, about.html, contact.html)
```
Multi-page architecture and navigation design

---

## Summary

Covered in this chapter:
- [x] Referencing files with `@`
- [x] File creation
- [x] File modification
- [x] Processing multiple files
- [x] Special prefixes (`@`, `!`, `#`)

The next chapter covers terminal commands.

Proceed to [Chapter 05: Terminal Commands](../Chapter05/README.md).
