Chapter01/README.md, before:

# Chapter 01: What is AI Coding?

**English** | [한국어](./README.ko.md)

## What You'll Learn

- What coding with AI means
- The concept of Vibecoding
- What Claude Code is and why to use it

---

## Before We Start

No coding knowledge is required. This curriculum starts from scratch.

You might think, "But I'm not a developer." Correct—for now. In the AI era, anyone can build their own ideas.

---

## What is AI Coding?

Previously, code had to be written line by line. Memorizing syntax, fixing errors, searching for solutions... learning took years.

Now it's different.

**Tell AI "make this for me" and AI writes the code.**

Clear communication leads to better results. That's why this curriculum exists.

### Example: Creating a Simple Web Page

**Traditional Approach:**
```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
    <title>My Page</title>
    <style>
        body { font-family: sans-serif; }
        h1 { color: blue; }
    </style>
</head>
<body>
    <h1>Hello</h1>
    <p>My name is John.</p>
</body>
</html>
```
All of this had to be memorized and written manually.

**AI Coding Approach:**
```
"Make a web page with a blue heading that says 'Hello',
and below it 'My name is John'"
```
This instruction produces the code above.

---

## What is Vibecoding?

**Vibecoding** is a new way of creating code through conversation with AI.

"Vibe" means feeling or atmosphere. Without knowing exact syntax, conveying the "feel" of what you want is enough for AI to understand and implement it.

### Core Principles of Vibecoding

1. **Express intent**: "Make the number go up when I click the button"
2. **Iterate through conversation**: "The number is too small. Make it bigger"
3. **Collaborate**: AI suggests, you choose, AI revises

Traditional coding required knowing everything independently. Vibecoding means building with AI as a partner.

---

## What is Claude Code?

**Claude Code** is an AI coding tool made by Anthropic.

### Difference from Web Chat (ChatGPT, Claude.ai)

Code can be generated in web chats like ChatGPT or Claude.ai, but there are limitations:

| Web Chat | Claude Code |
|----------|-------------|
| Copy code and paste into files manually | Creates and edits files directly |
| No local file access | Understands the entire project |
| Run commands manually | Executes commands on your behalf |
| Explain context every time | Recognizes current context |

**Summary**: Web chat provides the recipe; Claude Code does the cooking.

### What Claude Code Can Do

- Create websites
- Build apps
- Automate file organization
- Process data
- Modify existing code
- Find and fix bugs

---

## Learning Outcomes

After completing 20 chapters, you will be able to:

- Create and deploy a **portfolio website**
- Build **simple apps** (TODO app, games, etc.)
- Create **automation tools** (file organization, data processing)
- Build **AI services** (document summarizer, translator)

This curriculum teaches not just coding, but **creating with AI**.

---

## Mindset Before Starting

### 1. Perfection Is Not Required
Initial results may be unexpected. Simply try again.

### 2. Errors Are Normal
Errors in coding are not failures—they are part of the process. AI fixes errors too.

### 3. Start Small
Do not attempt something complex from the start. Begin with "Hello World."

### 4. Ask When Curious
"What is this?", "Why this approach?" Ask AI and it will explain.

---

## Next Steps

The next chapter covers Claude Code installation. Instructions are provided for both Mac and Windows.

Proceed to [Chapter 02: Installing Claude Code](../Chapter02/README.md).

Commit message:

Enhance curriculum with improved explanations and restructured Part 4
- Update all chapters to use 'effective request tips' instead of 'why LLM does this well'
- Restructure Part 4 (Practical II) with new topics:
  - Chapter 15: CLI Tools (file organizer, project generator, npm publishing)
  - Chapter 16: Chatbots (Discord bot + Slack bot extension)
  - Chapter 17: Full-Stack Apps (React + Express + SQLite)
- Chapter 13: Changed from Supabase to localStorage for simpler data persistence
- Chapter 17: Removed signup-required APIs, kept only free APIs
- Updated Chapter 20 to reflect Chapter 13 changes
- All changes applied to both Korean and English versions

Chapter01/README.md, after:

# Chapter 01: What is AI Coding?

**English** | [한국어](./README.ko.md)

## What You'll Learn

- What coding with AI means
- The concept of Vibecoding
- What Claude Code is and why to use it

---

## Before We Start

No coding knowledge is required. This curriculum starts from scratch.

You might think, "But I'm not a developer." Correct—for now. In the AI era, anyone can build their own ideas.

---

## What is AI Coding?

Previously, code had to be written line by line. Memorizing syntax, fixing errors, searching for solutions... learning took years.

Now it's different.

**Tell AI "make this for me" and AI writes the code.**

### Why Is This Possible?

LLMs (Large Language Models) like Claude have learned from vast amounts of code on the internet. They've seen billions of lines from GitHub repositories, Stack Overflow answers, and technical blogs.

So when you say "a web page with a blue heading":
- "blue heading" → `color: blue` pattern
- "web page" → HTML structure pattern

The model combines learned patterns to generate code. It's not magic—it's **pattern matching**.

Clear communication leads to better results. That's why this curriculum exists.

### Example: Creating a Simple Web Page

**Traditional Approach:**
```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
<head>
    <title>My Page</title>
    <style>
        body { font-family: sans-serif; }
        h1 { color: blue; }
    </style>
</head>
<body>
    <h1>Hello</h1>
    <p>My name is John.</p>
</body>
</html>
```
All of this had to be memorized and written manually.

**AI Coding Approach:**
```
"Make a web page with a blue heading that says 'Hello',
and below it 'My name is John'"
```
When an LLM receives this request, it combines the most appropriate patterns from its training. It already knows web page structure (`<html>`, `<body>`), heading styles (`color: blue`), and text layout.

---

## What is Vibecoding?

**Vibecoding** is a new way of creating code through conversation with AI.

"Vibe" means feeling or atmosphere. Without knowing exact syntax, conveying the "feel" of what you want is enough for AI to understand and implement it.

### Core Principles of Vibecoding

1. **Express intent**: "Make the number go up when I click the button"
2. **Iterate through conversation**: "The number is too small. Make it bigger"
3. **Collaborate**: AI suggests, you choose, AI revises

Traditional coding required knowing everything independently. Vibecoding means building with AI as a partner.

---

## What is Claude Code?

**Claude Code** is an AI coding tool made by Anthropic.

### Difference from Web Chat (ChatGPT, Claude.ai)

Code can be generated in web chats like ChatGPT or Claude.ai, but there are limitations:

| Web Chat | Claude Code |
|----------|-------------|
| Copy code and paste into files manually | Creates and edits files directly |
| No local file access | Understands the entire project |
| Run commands manually | Executes commands on your behalf |
| Explain context every time | Recognizes current context |

**Summary**: Web chat provides the recipe; Claude Code does the cooking.

### What Claude Code Can Do

- Create websites
- Build apps
- Automate file organization
- Process data
- Modify existing code
- Find and fix bugs

---

## Learning Outcomes

After completing 20 chapters, you will be able to:

- Create and deploy a **portfolio website**
- Build **simple apps** (TODO app, games, etc.)
- Create **automation tools** (file organization, data processing)
- Build **AI services** (document summarizer, translator)

This curriculum teaches not just coding, but **creating with AI**.

---

## Mindset Before Starting

### 1. Perfection Is Not Required
Initial results may be unexpected. Simply try again.

### 2. Errors Are Normal
Errors in coding are not failures—they are part of the process. AI fixes errors too.

### 3. Start Small
Do not attempt something complex from the start. Begin with "Hello World."

### 4. Ask When Curious
"What is this?", "Why this approach?" Ask AI and it will explain.

---

## Next Steps

The next chapter covers Claude Code installation. Instructions are provided for both Mac and Windows.

Proceed to [Chapter 02: Installing Claude Code](../Chapter02/README.md).
