Chapter03/README.md, before:

# Chapter 03: Your First Conversation

**English** | [한국어](./README.ko.md)

## What You'll Learn

- Basic conversation methods with Claude Code
- Understanding permission modes (important)
- Frequently used shortcuts

---

## Basic Conversation Method

Claude Code operates as a chat interface. Type input after the `>` prompt.

### Starting a Conversation

```bash
# Start Claude Code in terminal
claude
```

This screen appears:

```
>
```

Type input here.

### Examples

```
> Hello!
```

```
> What's the weather like?
```

```
> What's in this folder?
```

Any question works. Multiple languages including Korean are supported.

---

## Permission Modes (Essential)

Claude Code has three modes. **This is the most important concept.**

Claude Code can create, modify, and delete files. Accidental deletion of important files is possible.

### 1. Plan Mode (Safest)

```
Plan Mode
Read-only. Cannot modify anything.
```

**Use when:**
- First examining a project
- Understanding code behavior
- Planning before changes

**How to enter:**
```
> /plan
```
Or press `Shift + Tab` twice

### 2. Normal Mode (Default)

```
Normal Mode
Asks before making any changes.
```

**Use when:**
- First learning Claude Code
- Working with important files
- Verifying each change individually

When Claude attempts to modify a file:
```
Claude wants to edit src/app.js
[Allow] [Deny] [Allow all]
```
Select Allow to proceed.

### 3. Accept Edits Mode (Fast)

```
Accept Edits Mode
File edits auto-approved. Only asks for dangerous commands.
```

**Use when:**
- Already comfortable with Claude Code
- Working quickly
- Trusting Claude's decisions

### Mode Switching

| Method | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `Shift + Tab` | Cycle modes (Normal → Accept Edits → Plan → Normal) |
| `/plan` | Switch to Plan mode |
| `claude --permission-mode plan` | Start in Plan mode |

### Pro Tip

> "Almost always start in Plan mode."

For new work, press `Shift + Tab` twice to enter Plan mode. Let Claude examine the code and create a plan first, then switch to Normal or Accept Edits for execution. This approach yields better results.

---

## Frequently Used Shortcuts

No need to memorize. Reference when needed.

| Shortcut | Function |
|----------|----------|
| `Shift + Tab` | Change permission mode |
| `Ctrl + C` | Cancel current operation |
| `Esc Esc` | Undo (revert to previous state) |
| `Ctrl + L` | Clear screen (preserves conversation) |
| `Shift + Enter` | Line break (for long messages) |

### Note for Mac Users

To use `Alt` key combinations on Mac, enable "Option as Meta" in terminal settings.

---

## Slash Commands

Special commands starting with `/`.

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `/help` | View all commands |
| `/clear` | Clear conversation history |
| `/exit` | Exit Claude Code |
| `/cost` | View usage cost |
| `/model` | View/change model |

### /clear vs Ctrl+L

- `/clear`: Deletes conversation. Claude forgets previous context.
- `Ctrl+L`: Clears screen only. Claude retains memory.

---

## Continuing Sessions

Previous conversations can be continued after closing Claude Code.

```bash
# Continue last conversation
claude --continue

# Select from past conversations
claude --resume

# Name current session (for easier retrieval)
/rename my-project-work
```

---

## Practice

1. Start Claude Code: `claude`
2. Switch to Plan mode: `Shift + Tab` twice (or `/plan`)
3. Examine the folder:
   ```
   > What's in this folder? Explain.
   ```
4. Switch to Normal mode: `Shift + Tab`
5. Create a simple file:
   ```
   > Create a file called test.txt. Write "Hello World" in it.
   ```
6. When prompted, select `y` or `Allow`
7. Verify the result:
   ```
   > Show me the contents of the file you just created.
   ```

---

## Advanced: Using Claude Code Effectively

### Think → Plan → Execute

When starting with an AI tool, the instinct is to type immediately. But pausing to clarify "what am I trying to build?" leads to much better results.

Plan Mode helps with this. Claude analyzes the code and suggests an approach, and you can verify the plan before proceeding. Getting the direction right early prevents "do I need to redo this?" situations later.

### Choosing the Right Permission Mode

If you are unsure which mode to use, consider two factors:

**1. Risk level of the task**
- Creating new files → Low
- Modifying existing code → Medium
- Config files or database operations → High

**2. Can it be undone?**
- Tracked by Git → Easy to revert
- External service calls → Hard to undo

| Situation | Recommended Mode |
|-----------|-----------------|
| Low risk + Easy to revert | Accept Edits |
| Medium risk or unfamiliar task | Normal |
| High risk or hard to undo | Plan |

### Clear Requests Lead to Clear Results

Saying "make a website" forces Claude to choose from countless possibilities. But "make a portfolio page with intro, 3 projects, and contact sections in dark theme" lets Claude understand exactly what you want.

When making requests, consider:
- **What**: What result do you want
- **Where**: Which file/location
- **How**: Any specific approach you prefer
- **Why**: Context enables better judgment

### Design Decisions Together

For complex features, rather than jumping into implementation, discuss the structure with Claude in Plan Mode first.

```
> /plan
> I want to add user authentication.
> What options are there, and what fits this project?
```

When Claude explains options like JWT, sessions, or OAuth, you choose and then proceed with implementation. This prevents "built it but it doesn't match the requirements" situations.

---

## Summary

Covered in this chapter:
- [x] Conversation methods with Claude Code
- [x] Three permission modes (Plan, Normal, Accept Edits)
- [x] Frequently used shortcuts
- [x] Slash commands

**Key takeaway**: Start new work in Plan mode.

The next chapter covers file operations in detail.

Proceed to [Chapter 04: Working with Files](../Chapter04/README.md).

Commit message:

Enhance curriculum with improved explanations and restructured Part 4
- Update all chapters to use 'effective request tips' instead of 'why LLM does this well'
- Restructure Part 4 (Practical II) with new topics:
  - Chapter 15: CLI Tools (file organizer, project generator, npm publishing)
  - Chapter 16: Chatbots (Discord bot + Slack bot extension)
  - Chapter 17: Full-Stack Apps (React + Express + SQLite)
- Chapter 13: Changed from Supabase to localStorage for simpler data persistence
- Chapter 17: Removed signup-required APIs, kept only free APIs
- Updated Chapter 20 to reflect Chapter 13 changes
- All changes applied to both Korean and English versions

Chapter03/README.md, after:

# Chapter 03: Your First Conversation

**English** | [한국어](./README.ko.md)

## What You'll Learn

- Basic conversation methods with Claude Code
- Understanding permission modes (important)
- Frequently used shortcuts

---

## Basic Conversation Method

Claude Code operates as a chat interface. Type input after the `>` prompt.

### Starting a Conversation

```bash
# Start Claude Code in terminal
claude
```

This screen appears:

```
>
```

Type input here.

### Examples

```
> Hello!
```

```
> What's the weather like?
```

```
> What's in this folder?
```

Any question works. Multiple languages including Korean are supported.

---

## Permission Modes (Essential)

Claude Code has three modes. **This is the most important concept.**

### Why Permission Management?

LLMs "interpret" your requests and execute them. They're usually accurate, but occasionally interpret differently than intended.

For example, "clean up this folder" could mean:
- Organizing files by category
- Deleting unnecessary files

The LLM selects the most appropriate interpretation from context, but cannot be 100% certain. That's why confirmation before important operations is safer.

### 1. Plan Mode (Safest)

```
Plan Mode
Read-only. Cannot modify anything.
```

**Use when:**
- First examining a project
- Understanding code behavior
- Planning before changes

**How to enter:**
```
> /plan
```
Or press `Shift + Tab` twice

### 2. Normal Mode (Default)

```
Normal Mode
Asks before making any changes.
```

**Use when:**
- First learning Claude Code
- Working with important files
- Verifying each change individually

When Claude attempts to modify a file:
```
Claude wants to edit src/app.js
[Allow] [Deny] [Allow all]
```
Select Allow to proceed.

### 3. Accept Edits Mode (Fast)

```
Accept Edits Mode
File edits auto-approved. Only asks for dangerous commands.
```

**Use when:**
- Already comfortable with Claude Code
- Working quickly
- Trusting Claude's decisions

### Mode Switching

| Method | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `Shift + Tab` | Cycle modes (Normal → Accept Edits → Plan → Normal) |
| `/plan` | Switch to Plan mode |
| `claude --permission-mode plan` | Start in Plan mode |

### Pro Tip

> "Almost always start in Plan mode."

For new work, press `Shift + Tab` twice to enter Plan mode. LLMs generate better code when they understand the full context first. Analyzing code and planning before execution reduces situations where "it interpreted differently than intended, now I need to redo it."

---

## Frequently Used Shortcuts

No need to memorize. Reference when needed.

| Shortcut | Function |
|----------|----------|
| `Shift + Tab` | Change permission mode |
| `Ctrl + C` | Cancel current operation |
| `Esc Esc` | Undo (revert to previous state) |
| `Ctrl + L` | Clear screen (preserves conversation) |
| `Shift + Enter` | Line break (for long messages) |

### Note for Mac Users

To use `Alt` key combinations on Mac, enable "Option as Meta" in terminal settings.

---

## Slash Commands

Special commands starting with `/`.

| Command | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| `/help` | View all commands |
| `/clear` | Clear conversation history |
| `/exit` | Exit Claude Code |
| `/cost` | View usage cost |
| `/model` | View/change model |

### /clear vs Ctrl+L

- `/clear`: Deletes conversation. Claude forgets previous context.
- `Ctrl+L`: Clears screen only. Claude retains memory.

---

## Continuing Sessions

Previous conversations can be continued after closing Claude Code.

```bash
# Continue last conversation
claude --continue

# Select from past conversations
claude --resume

# Name current session (for easier retrieval)
/rename my-project-work
```

---

## Practice

1. Start Claude Code: `claude`
2. Switch to Plan mode: `Shift + Tab` twice (or `/plan`)
3. Examine the folder:
   ```
   > What's in this folder? Explain.
   ```
4. Switch to Normal mode: `Shift + Tab`
5. Create a simple file:
   ```
   > Create a file called test.txt. Write "Hello World" in it.
   ```
6. When prompted, select `y` or `Allow`
7. Verify the result:
   ```
   > Show me the contents of the file you just created.
   ```

---

## Advanced: Using Claude Code Effectively

### Think → Plan → Execute

When starting with an AI tool, the instinct is to type immediately. But pausing to clarify "what am I trying to build?" leads to much better results.

Plan Mode helps with this. Claude analyzes the code and suggests an approach, and you can verify the plan before proceeding. Getting the direction right early prevents "do I need to redo this?" situations later.

### Choosing the Right Permission Mode

If you are unsure which mode to use, consider two factors:

**1. Risk level of the task**
- Creating new files → Low
- Modifying existing code → Medium
- Config files or database operations → High

**2. Can it be undone?**
- Tracked by Git → Easy to revert
- External service calls → Hard to undo

| Situation | Recommended Mode |
|-----------|-----------------|
| Low risk + Easy to revert | Accept Edits |
| Medium risk or unfamiliar task | Normal |
| High risk or hard to undo | Plan |

### Clear Requests Lead to Clear Results

Saying "make a website" forces Claude to choose from countless possibilities. But "make a portfolio page with intro, 3 projects, and contact sections in dark theme" lets Claude understand exactly what you want.

When making requests, consider:
- **What**: What result do you want
- **Where**: Which file/location
- **How**: Any specific approach you prefer
- **Why**: Context enables better judgment

### Design Decisions Together

For complex features, rather than jumping into implementation, discuss the structure with Claude in Plan Mode first.

```
> /plan
> I want to add user authentication.
> What options are there, and what fits this project?
```

When Claude explains options like JWT, sessions, or OAuth, you choose and then proceed with implementation. This prevents "built it but it doesn't match the requirements" situations.

---

## Summary

Covered in this chapter:
- [x] Conversation methods with Claude Code
- [x] Three permission modes (Plan, Normal, Accept Edits)
- [x] Frequently used shortcuts
- [x] Slash commands

**Key takeaway**: Start new work in Plan mode.

The next chapter covers file operations in detail.

Proceed to [Chapter 04: Working with Files](../Chapter04/README.md).
